The modern conservative is engaged in one of man's oldest exercises in moral philosophy; that is, the search for a superior moral justification for selfishness.
Economics is extremely useful as a form of employment for economists.
All of the great leaders have had one characteristic in common: it was the willingness to confront unequivocally the major anxiety of their people in their time. This, and not much else, is the essence of leadership.
Faced with the choice between changing one's mind and proving that there is no need to do so, almost everyone gets busy on the proof.
Under capitalism, man exploits man. Under communism, it's just the opposite.
Meetings are indispensable when you don't want to do anything.
Politics is the art of choosing between the disastrous and the unpalatable.
It is a far, far better thing to have a firm anchor in nonsense than to put out on the troubled seas of thought.
Meetings are a great trap. Soon you find yourself trying to get agreement and then the people who disagree come to think they have a right to be persuaded. However, they are indispensable when you don't want to do anything.
The conventional view serves to protect us from the painful job of thinking.
A person buying ordinary products in a supermarket is in touch with his deepest emotions.
The conspicuously wealthy turn up urging the character building values of the privation of the poor.
Much literary criticism comes from people for whom extreme specialization is a cover for either grave cerebral inadequacy or terminal laziness, the latter being a much cherished aspect of academic freedom.
Total physical and mental inertia are highly agreeable, much more so than we allow ourselves to imagine. A beach not only permits such inertia but enforces it, thus neatly eliminating all problems of guilt. It is now the only place in our overly active world that does.
The only function of economic forecasting is to make astrology look respectable.
We all agree that pessimism is a mark of superior intellect.
In the United States, though power corrupts, the expectation of power paralyzes.
The great dialectic in our time is not, as anciently and by some still supposed, between capital and labor; it is between economic enterprise and the state.
We can safely abandon the doctrine of the eighties, namely that the rich were not working because they had too little money, the poor because they had much.
All successful revolutions are the kicking in of a rotten door.
Politics is not the art of the possible. It consists in choosing between the disastrous and the unpalatable.
There are times in politics when you must be on the right side and lose.
Power is not something that can be assumed or discarded at will like underwear.
